In this lesson, we're going to deploy a NAT Gateway, so are instance in a private sub that can connect
to the internet.
Now, if you haven't already got your instances running your private subnet configured, then you might
skip to this lesson.
You should go back to lessons to the last hands on lesson, private subnets and bastion hosts.
And within that lesson, we set up our VPC with a private subnet.
We can figure out a round table and then we deploy an instance into a private subnet one into a public
subnet.
And then we used agent forwarding to connect to the instance in our private subnet.
So basically, all configuration is we've got a private instance and we jump to that from an instance
in the public subnet.
We can't see that in this diagram, but it's there.
So you should now have a command line on this C2 instance.
I'm still connected to my instance here, and I know that if I try to ping an internet address like
Google.com, it's not going to work.
We can see that resulted in 100 percent packet loss.
So basically it didn't work at all.
So what we need to do now is deploy on that gateway into a public subnet at the root table, in the
private subnet with a Nat Gateway I.D. And then we should be able to connect to the internet outbound
only via the NAT Gateway.
So let's head over and build this out in my VPC dashboard here.
I'm in the same region as before North Virginia.
Let's head down to NAT gateways and creates in that gateway.
I'll simply call this my tushnet dash GW and let's select a subnet.
Now, remember, we want it to be in a public subnet, so I'm going to choose my one, a subnet that's
in the public.
Remember all of these subnets here that were created by default are public subnet, whereas this one
here is the one we created ourselves, and that's a private subnet.
So I'm going to deploy into a public subnet.
The connectivity type is going to be public.
We're using network address translation to connect to the internet.
You can do it between different address ranges within us as well.
If you choose a private connectivity type.
So with public selected, we need to allocate an elastic IP.
Now, I don't have any associated with my accounts, so let's just allocate the elastic IP and then
create on that gateway.
So that's being created should only take a few minutes.
Now what we need to do is go to our round table for a private subnet.
So this is this one here.
Let's go to routes.
Edit routes.
And we need to add routes.
And this is going to be for the internet.
So we're going to use zero zero zero zero zero.
And here, if we just click in the box, choose not gateway and it's going to autofill on that Gateway
ID for us.
We can then save changes.
OK, great.
That's the configuration.
We don't need to do anything else.
Now you will, of course, need to make sure that your instance has a security group associated with
it that allows outbound access.
All security groups should have that, but let's just go and check.
So back in instances here, I can see this is my instance in the private subnet.
If I go to security, I can see the security group is called web access.
Let's click on that in our security group.
Let's choose outbound rules.
Now we see we have a rule here that allows all traffic, all protocols and allport ranges outbound to
any destination address.
So that should cover everything, including the protocol ICMP, the internet control message protocol,
which is what our ping attempt is actually trying to use.
So the security group looks good.
Let's come back to the command line and I'm just going to run that same command again.
Ping Google.com.
And this time we can see we're getting a response.
And I'll end it there and we can see I got zero percent packet loss.
So complete success.
So this is really useful where you need to enable outbound access for your instances.
Often that's going to be to pull down binary software or software updates from the internet or connecting
to some kind of API service or any service really on the internet.
Remember, the key is this is for outbound only.
You cannot have inbound access via a NAT gateway.
So that's it for this lesson, and we should clean up now because we don't need these resources anymore
in the VPC dashboard.
I'm going to go down to NAT gateways and delete my NAT Gateway.
You do pay for these.
So you do need to get rid of it.
So that will be deleted now.
And don't forget, we had an elastic IP associated with that, so we're going to have to clean that
up as well.
Back in EC2, I've got my two instances.
So let's go and terminate both instances.
Now you don't pay for root tables.
You don't pay for your internet gateway.
You don't pay.
For security groups and things like that, those are included in VPC.
But we do now need to go down and remove elastic IP address because you do pay for these when they're
not in use with the elastic IP, you can go to actions and disassociate if you need to.
In this case, I tried that, but it wouldn't work.
And the reason was it was still attached to the NAT Gateway, which was being deleted in the background.
Once that has happened and it is no longer associated, you can then go and release the elastic IP address.
So don't forget to do that because you will pay for an elastic IP that's associated with your account,
but not actually allocated to anything.